Discuss stable points in the continuum (#23)
intarchboard/draft-protocol-maintenance: draft-iab-protocol-maintenance.md

# Ecosystem Effects

From observing widely deployed protocols, it appears there are two stable points
on the spectrum between being strict versus permissive in the presence of
protocol errors:

> * If there is a majority of strict implementations, newer implementations will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If implementations predominantly enforce strict compliance with specifications, newer implementations will
```

>   experience failures if they do not conform to the protocol and will fix them
>   before deploying, adding a new strict implementation to the majority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  experience failures if they do not comply with protocol requirements. Newer implementations need to
  fix compliance issues in order to be successfully deployed. This ensures
  that most deployments are compliant.
```

I think that compliance > conformance here.  Both arms describe a process that guarantees conformance with group norms.  It's just that one cleaves to a specification that is agreed and written down, the other evolves organically.

> * Conversely, if there is a majority of non-conformant implementations, newer
>   implementations will accumulate protocol non-conformant deviations to the
>   protocol in order to interoperate before they are deployed, adding a new
>   non-conformant implementation to the majority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Conversely, if non-compliance is tolerated by existing implementations, non-compliant
  implementations can be deployed successfully.  Newer implementations then
  have strong incentive to tolerate any existing non-compliance in order to be
  successfully deployed.  This ensures that most deployments are tolerant of the same
  non-compliant behavior.
```
